I have always found the computers that we use to be nothing short of magical; from being the backbone of our digital lives, to simulating the physics of our universe, to mimicking human intelligence, computers have fundamentally transformed human civilization. However, as elusive as computers may feel from the outside, I always remember that their capabilities are grounded in the reality that they are human creations. Their many layers of abstractions, from high level programming languages all the way down to the very transistors that carry electrical signals, is a testament to the ingenuity behind it all. It is this very balance of complexity and creativity that first drew me to computer science.

My academic journey in computer science took me to the mathematical and more theoretical side last semester, where I took discrete structures and linear algebra. Having explored the fundamental mathematical building blocks of computer science, such as logic, the language of sets, and proof methods, I was able to better appreciate how the field was built up from such a basic theoretical core. Serendipitously, I was taking linear algebra at the same time. Despite being a subject in pure math, it reminded me a lot of my interest in computer science. From numbers we build equations, equations give us systems, and systems give us matrices. Matrices introduce even higher level ideas like the fundamental subspaces, and thus the theorems that tie them together. On top of its pure elegance, I found linear algebra very similar to computer science in the sense that its atomic building blocks culminate in something greater than the sum of its parts. 

The NSF REU program at Texas A&M is an invaluable opportunity to further cultivate my burgeoning interest in mathematics, particularly within the context of computer science. By immersing myself in research at the intersection of these disciplines, I anticipate gaining insights into advanced mathematical concepts and their applications in computing. This experience promises not only to enrich my academic journey but also to provide a solid foundation for a potential career path in research. Engaging with complex problems, guided by leading scholars, and collaborating with peers who share similar interests, I look forward to exploring mathematics. The REU program is the perfect gateway to discovering a specialized field of research that could shape my future academic and career aspirations, serving as both a culmination of my current interests and a bridge to the next phase of my academic journey.